adr/0002-minimum-supported-python-version.md, before:

# 2. Minimum supported Python version

Date: 2019-05-13

Architecture issue: [#167](https://github.com/home-assistant/architecture/issues/167)

## Status

Accepted

## Context

Home Assistant currently sets the minimum Python requirement to whatever is shipped in Debian Stable. As most installations are now based on Docker, it is easier to upgrade.

## Decision

Home Assistant will support the latest two released minor Python versions. For example, currently we will support Python 3.6 and Python 3.7. Once Python 3.8 is released, we will support only Python 3.7 and Python 3.8.

Once a new minor Python version is released, the to be dropped minor version will be deprecated for a period of 2 months, after which it will be removed. While deprecated, Home Assistant will print a warning message to inform the user.

## Consequences

- June 1, 2019: Deprecate Python 3.5
- August 1, 2019: Adopt that Home Assistant will support the latest 2 minor releases of Python. This means that we drop support for Python 3.5.

We have three installation methods. Both Hass.io and Docker are already using the latest Python version. The next Debian Stable will ship with Python 3.7, so Hassbian users might not need to do anything besides updating their distro.

Commit message:

ADR-0002: clarify micro version support
https://github.com/home-assistant/architecture/issues/278

adr/0002-minimum-supported-python-version.md, after:

# 2. Minimum supported Python version

Date: 2019-05-13, updated 2019-09-02 (micro version clarification)

Architecture issue: [#167](https://github.com/home-assistant/architecture/issues/167), [#278](https://github.com/home-assistant/architecture/issues/278)

## Status

Accepted

## Context

Home Assistant currently sets the minimum Python requirement to whatever is shipped in Debian Stable. As most installations are now based on Docker, it is easier to upgrade.

## Decision

Home Assistant will support the latest two released minor Python versions. For example, currently we will support Python 3.6 and Python 3.7. Once Python 3.8 is released, we will support only Python 3.7 and Python 3.8.

Once a new minor Python version is released, the to be dropped minor version will be deprecated for a period of 2 months, after which it will be removed. While deprecated, Home Assistant will print a warning message to inform the user.

Supported micro versions are decided on minor version basis, and codified in the version check code in Home Assistant proper.

## Consequences

- June 1, 2019: Deprecate Python 3.5
- August 1, 2019: Adopt that Home Assistant will support the latest 2 minor releases of Python. This means that we drop support for Python 3.5.

We have three installation methods. Both Hass.io and Docker are already using the latest Python version. The next Debian Stable will ship with Python 3.7, so Hassbian users might not need to do anything besides updating their distro.
